ANDROID_FIXES.md, before:

# Android Clipboard Fixes Documentation

## Issues Resolved

This document outlines all the Android compilation and runtime issues that have been fixed in the react-native-media-clipboard library.

## 🐛 Fixed Issues

### 1. Base64 Image "Image file not found" Error

**Problem:** Base64 data URIs were treated as file paths, causing "Image file not found" errors.

**Solution:**

- Added `handleBase64Image()` method to detect and process base64 data URIs
- Proper base64 decoding with `android.util.Base64`
- Creates temporary files with correct MIME type extensions
- Unique file naming to prevent conflicts

### 2. URL Image "exposed beyond app" Error

**Problem:** FileProvider URIs were shared through clipboard without proper permissions, violating Android security model.

**Solution:**

- Enhanced `createClipDataForImage()` method with explicit URI permissions
- Multiple permission grants to clipboard system packages:
  - `com.android.systemui` (System UI clipboard)
  - `android` (Android system)
  - `com.android.providers.media` (Media provider)
- Proper ClipData creation with explicit ClipDescription and ClipData.Item

### 3. Java Compilation Errors

#### 3.1 Invalid Statement Error

**Problem:** Line 648 had invalid Java statement:

```java
android.provider.MediaStore.Images.Media.EXTERNAL_CONTENT_URI;
```

**Solution:** Removed the invalid statement from `createMediaStoreUri()` method.

#### 3.2 ClipDescription.setLabel() Error

**Problem:** Called non-existent method `setLabel()` on ClipDescription class.

**Solution:** Removed the invalid method call since ClipDescription doesn't have a setLabel method.

#### 3.3 Deprecated onCatalystInstanceDestroy()

**Problem:** Used deprecated React Native lifecycle method `onCatalystInstanceDestroy()`.

**Solution:**

- Replaced with `invalidate()` method
- Added `Invalidatable` interface implementation
- Updated class declaration: `implements Invalidatable`

## 🔧 Technical Implementation

### Enhanced Permission Management

```java
// Grant permissions to multiple clipboard consumers
String[] clipboardPackages = {
    "com.android.systemui",     // System UI (clipboard)
    "android",                  // Android system
    "com.android.providers.media", // Media provider
    context.getPackageName()    // Our own app
};

for (String packageName : clipboardPackages) {
    try {
        context.grantUriPermission(packageName, imageUri, Intent.FLAG_GRANT_READ_URI_PERMISSION);
    } catch (Exception e) {
        // Log and continue
    }
}
```

### Improved ClipData Creation

```java
// Create ClipData with proper permissions for FileProvider URIs
ClipData.Item item = new ClipData.Item(imageUri);
ClipDescription description = new ClipDescription("image", new String[]{mimeType});
ClipData clip = new ClipData(description, item);
```

### Base64 Processing

```java
// Decode base64 data
byte[] imageData = Base64.decode(base64Data, Base64.DEFAULT);

// Create temporary file with proper extension
String filename = createTempFileName("clipboard_image", extension);
File tempFile = new File(cacheDir, filename);
```

### File Management

- Automatic cleanup of temporary files older than 1 hour
- Unique file naming with timestamps and random numbers
- Proper resource management with try-with-resources

## 📱 FileProvider Configuration

### AndroidManifest.xml

```xml
<provider
  android:name="androidx.core.content.FileProvider"
  android:authorities="${applicationId}.mediaclipboard.fileprovider"
  android:exported="false"
  android:grantUriPermissions="true">
  <meta-data
    android:name="android.support.FILE_PROVIDER_PATHS"
    android:resource="@xml/file_provider_paths" />
</provider>
```

### file_provider_paths.xml

```xml
<paths xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
  <files-path name="internal_files" path="." />
  <cache-path name="cache" path="." />
  <external-path name="external" path="." />
  <external-files-path name="external_files" path="." />
  <external-cache-path name="external_cache" path="." />
  <external-media-path name="external_media" path="." />
</paths>
```

## 🧪 Testing

### Test Cases

1. **Base64 Image Copy**: Copy small PNG image from base64 data URI
2. **URL Image Copy**: Download and copy image from HTTP/HTTPS URL
3. **FileProvider URI Access**: Verify clipboard can access FileProvider URIs
4. **Compilation**: Ensure all Java code compiles without errors

### Expected Log Messages

```
MediaClipboard: Using FileProvider authority: com.yourapp.mediaclipboard.fileprovider
MediaClipboard: Generated FileProvider URI: content://...
MediaClipboard: Granted URI permission to: com.android.systemui
MediaClipboard: Created ClipData with URI: content://...
MediaClipboard: Base64 image copied to clipboard successfully
```

## ✅ Verification

### Success Criteria

- [x] React Native app builds without Java compilation errors
- [x] Base64 images copy successfully without "Image file not found" errors
- [x] URL images download and copy without "exposed beyond app" errors
- [x] No ClipDescription.setLabel() compilation errors
- [x] No deprecated onCatalystInstanceDestroy() warnings
- [x] Images can be pasted in other apps (messaging, etc.)
- [x] Temporary files are cleaned up properly

### Error Messages That Should NOT Appear

- ❌ `exposed beyond app through ClipData.Item.getUri()`
- ❌ `Image file not found`
- ❌ `not a statement` compilation errors
- ❌ `cannot find symbol: method setLabel`
- ❌ `onCatalystInstanceDestroy() has been deprecated`

## 🚀 Usage

After these fixes, both base64 and URL image copying work seamlessly:

```javascript
// Base64 image copy (now works!)
const base64Image = 'data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAA...';
await MediaClipboard.copyImage(base64Image, { showNotification: true });

// URL image copy (now works!)
const imageUrl = 'https://example.com/image.jpg';
await MediaClipboard.copyImage(imageUrl, { showNotification: true });
```

## 📋 Dependencies

### Required Android API Level

- Minimum SDK: API 16 (Android 4.1)
- Target SDK: API 34+ (recommended)
- FileProvider support: API 24+ (Android 7.0+)

### Required Dependencies

- `androidx.core:core` (for FileProvider)
- React Native 0.60+ (for proper native module integration)

---

**Last Updated:** December 2024  
**Android Fixes Version:** 2.0  
**Tested On:** React Native 0.70+, Android API 24-34

Commit message:

chore: update version to 0.0.2-android-beta.5 and enhance MediaClipboard functionality
- Bumped package version in package.json to reflect the latest Android beta release.
- Added support for MediaStore URIs to improve clipboard compatibility on Android 10+.
- Implemented external cache fallback for older Android versions to ensure broader compatibility.
- Updated AndroidManifest.xml with necessary permissions for MediaStore access.
- Enhanced MediaClipboardModule with improved error handling and URI creation methods.
- Added new tests for web implementation to ensure functionality across platforms.

This update enhances the library's capabilities for handling media types on Android, ensuring a smoother user experience and better compatibility with various Android versions.

Signed-off-by: duonguyen <duongcoilc2004@gmail.com>

ANDROID_FIXES.md, after:

# Android Clipboard Fixes Documentation

## Issues Resolved

This document outlines all the Android compilation and runtime issues that have been fixed in the react-native-media-clipboard library.

## 🐛 Fixed Issues

### 1. Base64 Image "Image file not found" Error

**Problem:** Base64 data URIs were treated as file paths, causing "Image file not found" errors.

**Solution:**

- Added `handleBase64Image()` method to detect and process base64 data URIs
- Proper base64 decoding with `android.util.Base64`
- Creates temporary files with correct MIME type extensions
- Unique file naming to prevent conflicts

### 2. URL Image "exposed beyond app" Error

**Problem:** FileProvider URIs were shared through clipboard without proper permissions, violating Android security model.

**Solution:**

- Enhanced `createClipDataForImage()` method with explicit URI permissions
- Multiple permission grants to clipboard system packages:
  - `com.android.systemui` (System UI clipboard)
  - `android` (Android system)
  - `com.android.providers.media` (Media provider)
- Proper ClipData creation with explicit ClipDescription and ClipData.Item

### 3. Java Compilation Errors

#### 3.1 Invalid Statement Error

**Problem:** Line 648 had invalid Java statement:

```java
android.provider.MediaStore.Images.Media.EXTERNAL_CONTENT_URI;
```

**Solution:** Removed the invalid statement from `createMediaStoreUri()` method.

#### 3.2 ClipDescription.setLabel() Error

**Problem:** Called non-existent method `setLabel()` on ClipDescription class.

**Solution:** Removed the invalid method call since ClipDescription doesn't have a setLabel method.

#### 3.3 Deprecated onCatalystInstanceDestroy()

**Problem:** Used deprecated React Native lifecycle method `onCatalystInstanceDestroy()`.

**Solution:**

- Replaced with `invalidate()` method
- Added `Invalidatable` interface implementation
- Updated class declaration: `implements Invalidatable`

## 🔧 Technical Implementation

### Enhanced Permission Management

```java
// Grant permissions to multiple clipboard consumers
String[] clipboardPackages = {
    "com.android.systemui",     // System UI (clipboard)
    "android",                  // Android system
    "com.android.providers.media", // Media provider
    context.getPackageName()    // Our own app
};

for (String packageName : clipboardPackages) {
    try {
        context.grantUriPermission(packageName, imageUri, Intent.FLAG_GRANT_READ_URI_PERMISSION);
    } catch (Exception e) {
        // Log and continue
    }
}
```

### Improved ClipData Creation

```java
// Create ClipData with proper permissions for FileProvider URIs
ClipData.Item item = new ClipData.Item(imageUri);
ClipDescription description = new ClipDescription("image", new String[]{mimeType});
ClipData clip = new ClipData(description, item);
```

### Base64 Processing

```java
// Decode base64 data
byte[] imageData = Base64.decode(base64Data, Base64.DEFAULT);

// Create temporary file with proper extension
String filename = createTempFileName("clipboard_image", extension);
File tempFile = new File(cacheDir, filename);
```

### File Management

- Automatic cleanup of temporary files older than 1 hour
- Unique file naming with timestamps and random numbers
- Proper resource management with try-with-resources

## 📱 FileProvider Configuration

### AndroidManifest.xml

```xml
<provider
  android:name="androidx.core.content.FileProvider"
  android:authorities="${applicationId}.mediaclipboard.fileprovider"
  android:exported="false"
  android:grantUriPermissions="true">
  <meta-data
    android:name="android.support.FILE_PROVIDER_PATHS"
    android:resource="@xml/file_provider_paths" />
</provider>
```

### file_provider_paths.xml

```xml
<paths xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
  <files-path name="internal_files" path="." />
  <cache-path name="cache" path="." />
  <external-path name="external" path="." />
  <external-files-path name="external_files" path="." />
  <external-cache-path name="external_cache" path="." />
  <external-media-path name="external_media" path="." />
</paths>
```

## 🧪 Testing

### Test Cases

1. **Base64 Image Copy**: Copy small PNG image from base64 data URI
2. **URL Image Copy**: Download and copy image from HTTP/HTTPS URL
3. **FileProvider URI Access**: Verify clipboard can access FileProvider URIs
4. **Compilation**: Ensure all Java code compiles without errors

### Expected Log Messages

```
MediaClipboard: Using FileProvider authority: com.yourapp.mediaclipboard.fileprovider
MediaClipboard: Generated FileProvider URI: content://...
MediaClipboard: Granted URI permission to: com.android.systemui
MediaClipboard: Created ClipData with URI: content://...
MediaClipboard: Base64 image copied to clipboard successfully
```

## ✅ Verification

### Success Criteria

- [x] React Native app builds without Java compilation errors
- [x] Base64 images copy successfully without "Image file not found" errors
- [x] URL images download and copy without "exposed beyond app" errors
- [x] MediaStore URIs used for clipboard compatibility (Android 10+)
- [x] External cache fallback for older Android versions
- [x] Proper permissions for MediaStore access
- [x] No ClipDescription.setLabel() compilation errors
- [x] No deprecated onCatalystInstanceDestroy() warnings
- [x] Images can be pasted in other apps (messaging, etc.)
- [x] Temporary files are cleaned up properly

### Error Messages That Should NOT Appear

- ❌ `exposed beyond app through ClipData.Item.getUri()`
- ❌ `Image file not found`
- ❌ `not a statement` compilation errors
- ❌ `cannot find symbol: method setLabel`
- ❌ `onCatalystInstanceDestroy() has been deprecated`

## 🚀 Usage

After these fixes, both base64 and URL image copying work seamlessly:

```javascript
// Base64 image copy (now works!)
const base64Image = 'data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAA...';
await MediaClipboard.copyImage(base64Image, { showNotification: true });

// URL image copy (now works!)
const imageUrl = 'https://example.com/image.jpg';
await MediaClipboard.copyImage(imageUrl, { showNotification: true });
```

## 📋 Dependencies

### Required Android API Level

- Minimum SDK: API 16 (Android 4.1)
- Target SDK: API 34+ (recommended)
- FileProvider support: API 24+ (Android 7.0+)

### Required Dependencies

- `androidx.core:core` (for FileProvider)
- React Native 0.60+ (for proper native module integration)

---

**Last Updated:** December 2024  
**Android Fixes Version:** 2.0  
**Tested On:** React Native 0.70+, Android API 24-34
